---
title: July survey sweepstakes official rules
date: 2017-07-27 11:34:00 -05:00
isHidden: true
---

**NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT OF ANY KIND WILL NOT INCREASE CHANCES OF WINNING. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED.**

**Eligibility:** The Wyzant Survey Sweepstakes (the “Sweepstakes”) is open only to current US residents who are 18 years or older in the United States prior to the Sweepstakes Period. Wyzant, Inc. (Sponsor) staff and their immediate family members (parents, children, spouses, siblings) and members of the same household are not eligible to win. The Sweepstakes and participation is subject to Sponsor’s Terms of Use (https://www.wyzant.com/termsofuse) and Privacy Policy (https://www.wyzant.com/privacypolicy), which are incorporated as part of these Official Rules. Sweepstakes is subject to all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Participation constitutes full and unconditional agreement to these Official Rules and Sponsor’s decisions, which are final and binding in all matters related to the Sweepstakes.

**Promotion Period:** The Sweepstakes begins on July 27, 2017, at 8:00:00 a.m. Central Time (CT) and ends on August 5, 2017, at 11:59:00 p.m. CT (the “Sweepstakes Period”). Sponsor’s computer is the official time-keeping device for the Sweepstakes.

**To Enter:** During the Sweepstakes Period, individuals will receive an email to participate in a survey about the Sponsor’s brand (“Survey”). Those individuals who respond to the Survey will be automatically entered in the drawing for a chance to win the Prize (described below). Limit one entry per individual. Entry is subject to Wyzant’s verification of compliance with these Official Rules. All survey responses must be received by the last day of the Sweepstakes Period to be eligible to be entered into the drawing. All entries become the property of the Sponsor and will not be acknowledged or returned.

**Drawing:** One (1) potential winner will be randomly selected by Sponsor’s computer program from among all eligible entries (each “Winner”). Odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received. Potential Winner will be notified by email and may be required to execute and return an affidavit of eligibility within seven (7) days of date of issuance. If such documents are not returned within the specified time period, a prize or prize notification is returned as undeliverable, a potential Winner is not in compliance with these rules, or Sponsor is unable to contact the potential Winner within a reasonable time period, prize will be forfeited and, at Sponsor’s discretion, an alternate Winner will be selected.

**Prize:** One (1) $100 Amazon gift card (“Prize”) will be awarded to the Winner. The Prize is non-transferable and no substitution will be made except as provided herein or at the Sponsor’s sole discretion. Sponsor reserves the right to substitute the Prize for one of equal or greater value if the designated prize should become unavailable for any reason. Winner is responsible for all taxes and fees associated with prize receipt and/or use. Any balance owed on total purchase in excess of the Prize will be the responsibility of the Winner. Prize is awarded “as is” with no warranty or guarantee, either express or implied. Approximate Retail Value of all prizes is $100.00.

**Publicity:** Except where prohibited, participation in the Sweepstakes constitutes Winner’s consent to Sponsor’s and its agents’ use of the Winner’s name, likeness, photograph, voice, opinions and/or hometown and state for promotional purposes in any media, worldwide, without further payment or consideration.

**Release:** By accepting or redeeming any prize, Winner agrees to release and hold harmless Sponsor, and each of their respective subsidiaries, affiliates, suppliers, distributors, advertising/promotion agencies, and prize suppliers, and each of their respective parent companies and each such company’s officers, directors, employees and agents (collectively, the “Released Parties”) from and against any claim or cause of action, including, but not limited to, personal injury, death, or damage to or loss of property, arising out of participation in the Sweepstakes or receipt or use or misuse of any prize.

**Limitations of Liability:** The Released Parties are not responsible for: (1) any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by participants, printing errors or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the Sweepstakes; (2) technical failures of any kind, including, but not limited to malfunctions, interruptions, or disconnections in phone lines or network hardware or software; (3) unauthorized human intervention in any part of the entry process or the Sweepstakes; (4) technical or human error which may occur in the administration of the Sweepstakes or the processing of entries; or (5) late, lost, undeliverable, damaged or stolen mail. No more than the stated number of prize(s) will be awarded. In the event that production, technical, seeding, programming or any other reasons cause more than the stated number of prize(s) as set forth in these Official Rules to be available and/or claimed, Sponsor reserves the right to award only the stated number of prize(s) by a random drawing from among all eligible prize claims.

**General Conditions:** Sponsor reserves the right to cancel, suspend and/or modify the Sweepstakes, or any part of it, if any fraud, technical failures or any other factor beyond Sponsor’s reasonable control impairs the integrity or proper functioning of the Sweepstakes, as determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion. Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to disqualify any individual it finds to be tampering with the entry process or the operation of the Sweepstakes or to be acting in violation of these Official Rules or any other promotion or in an unsportsmanlike or disruptive manner. Sponsor’s failure to enforce any term of these Official Rules shall not constitute a waiver of that provision.

**Disputes:** Except where prohibited, participants agrees that: (1) any and all disputes, claims and causes of action arising out of or connected with this Sweepstakes or any prize awarded shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action, and exclusively by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois or the appropriate Illinois State Court located in Cook County, Illinois; (2) any and all claims, judgments and awards shall be limited to actual out-of-pocket costs incurred, including costs associated with entering this Sweepstakes, but in no event attorneys’ fees; and (3) under no circumstances will participants be permitted to obtain awards for, and participants hereby waive all rights to claim, indirect, punitive, incidental and consequential damages and any other damages, other than for actual out-of-pocket expenses, and any and all rights to have damages multiplied or otherwise increased. All issues and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of the participants in connection with the Sweepstakes, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Illinois without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law rules (whether of the State of Illinois or any other jurisdiction), which would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Illinois.

**Winners List/Official Rules:** Winner will be emailed on or before August 10, 2017. For the name(s) of the Prize Winners, send a self-addressed, stamped, #10 envelope to: July Survey Sweepstakes Winners List Request, 1714 North Damen Ave, #3N, Chicago, Illinois 60647. Winner(s) list will be sent when the Sweepstakes Period is over. Requests for Winner(s) list must be received by August 7, 2017. A copy of these Official Rules may be obtained upon request by emailing support@wyzant.com.

**Sponsor:** Wyzant Inc. 1714 North Damen Ave, #3N, Chicago, Illinois 60647, 877-999-2681.