---
title: 'LSAT 101: Everything You Need to Maximize Your Prep'
date: 2020-05-22 11:46:00 -05:00
published: false
categories:
- LSAT
- Test Prep
tags:
- LSAT
- Test Prep
author: Jacqueline Zote
---

If you’re an aspiring lawyer, chances are you’ve done a fair bit of research to learn all about the LSAT. By now, you probably have answers to some common questions, like, "When is the LSAT?", or, "What LSAT score do I need to get into my dream school?"

For those who dream of getting into top-tier schools like Yale, Stanford, or Harvard, an average LSAT score just won’t cut it. You need to score well above 165 to even stand a chance at being considered for admissions.

So the best thing to do is to ramp up your LSAT prep efforts. For that, you’ll need high-quality resources that can teach you how to study for the LSAT and assure better LSAT scores. This LSAT 101 guide contains everything you'll need to maximize your LSAT prep. 

## LSAT Basics

It's no secret that there's a ton of info to absorb and process when it's time to study for the LSAT. Step one to a good foundation is to understand the best way to prep for the test, and how your scores will be affected by the amount of time you spend studying each of the LSAT sections.

### Understand the LSAT Scoring System
To better understand the LSATs and how to prepare for them, it’s crucial that you understand how LSAT scoring works. This will give you a better idea of how many questions you need to answer correctly to get your ideal score. This is where it gets a bit tricky because the raw score from your test answers get converted to a scaled score. 

The Law School Admission Council [provides a chart](https://www.lsac.org/lsat/lsat-prep/practice-test/computing-your-score) that helps you get a better idea of this raw score to scaled score conversion. Use this chart to find out what raw score you need to shoot for if you want to get great LSAT results.

### Learn How to Study for the LSAT
Getting a good LSAT score isn’t so much diving blindly into your LSAT prep as learning how to study for the LSAT in a more strategic manner. It’s not enough that you know all the answers to the questions in your test; you should also work fast enough to finish answering them. That means you should learn the LSAT 101 on how to study smart and improve your speed.

Strategic LSAT prep helps you make sure that all the time and energy you spend on studying isn’t for nothing. It involves knowing which aspects of the test to focus on, maintaining a study schedule, learning testing methods to improve your speed, and more. It goes without saying that you’ll need to practice a lot, so your online LSAT prep should also include knowing where to get LSAT practice tests.

## LSAT Logical Reasoning

Among all the LSAT test sections, logical reasoning takes center stage and accounts for half of your total score. You get two types of logical reasoning questions - the regular logical reasoning questions that involve using nuances in language to deduce the right answer and the analytical reasoning questions involving logic games.

### Understand the Basic Strategies to Tackle Logical Reasoning

With questions designed to confuse you, tackling the logical reasoning section of the LSATs can take up a lot of your time. As such, it’s crucial that you focus your efforts on understanding the basic strategies to answer logical reasoning questions without spending too much time on them. Learning the do’s and don’ts of tackling this section of the test will help you avoid costly mistakes and improve your overall LSAT scores.

### Practice Using Logic Games and Tests
As important as it is to learn the basic methods for tackling logical reasoning questions, it’s also important that you spend a lot of time putting those methods into practice. Use logic games to test your skills and improve how quickly you analyze the situation to come up with the right answer.

Additionally, you can also find practice tests for the common types of logical reasoning questions that often come up in the LSATs. Practicing on these tests will help you speed up your ability to deduce the issue being presented based on the specific language being used in the question. So you’ll have a better understanding of what to expect on the actual test and how to answer them without wasting all your allotted time.

## Reading Comprehension
Believe it or not, there are strategies to improve how quickly you comprehend a given passage and derive correct answers from it. The LSAT reading comprehension test can take up a lot of your time as it involves reading a block of passage and using your understanding of the information to answer the given questions.

### Discover Strategies to Improve Reading Comprehension
To work faster on reading comp questions, you’ll need to learn how to standardize your reading process and better understand the text. You might even need to take a different approach based on the type of question you’re getting. So it’s crucial that you learn the strategies to improve your reading comprehension and better prep for the LSATs.

### Brush Up on Your Skills Using Practice Passages
Just like with other sections of the LSATs, your reading comprehension needs practice. The more you practice reading passages and answering the given questions, the better you’ll get at processing the most crucial parts of the text. Use reading comprehension practice questions and test passages to get better at this part of the LSATs.

## Writing
Although the essay section won’t have an effect on your overall LSAT scores, that doesn’t make it any less important. In fact, it could be the determining factor for whether or not you get into your dream school because it will be a part of your official report. So you could end up not getting into Harvard because of a poorly-written paper, although you scored a 179 in the test.

### Understand How LSAT Writing Works
Since your writing sample can be considered by universities, it's crucial that you spend an equal amount of time and effort into improving your LSAT writing. Have a clear idea of how this section of the test works so you understand what you need to do and how you can write a compelling paper.

### Improve Your Writing Skills
It takes a lot of practice to improve your writing skills. It also requires understanding of the best practices that can help you become a better writer. This will help you learn how to tell a compelling story and make a strong point through your paper, which will then improve your chances of getting into your dream school.

Tackling prep for the LSAT should involve thorough writing practice in addition to practicing other sections of the test that get scored. 

## Getting Help
Whether it’s your first time taking the LSATs or you’ve taken them a few times before, working with a dedicated tutor can guarantee better LSAT results. As you probably know by now, there’s a lot involved in the LSATs and it’s not enough to just study blindly. Otherwise, you could end up taking the test knowing a lot of things but being unable to apply that knowledge fast enough.

### Consider Working with an LSAT Tutor

An LSAT tutor will provide you with personalized guidance on how to improve your test-taking skills, what to expect, how to improve your speed, and more. They will provide dedicated sessions to understand how each section of the test works, why it’s important, and how you should prepare for it.

With your personalized LSAT tutoring, you’ll gain better knowledge and skills to take the test with a good chance of getting high scores. Some LSAT tutors even provide helpful tips and tricks to tackle certain types of questions with ease and efficiency.

## Get Help from a Writing Tutor
Your LSAT tutoring will touch on all the scored sections of the test as well as the essay, providing comprehensive guidance on online LSAT prep. However, that may not be enough to help you write a compelling paper. To stand a better chance of getting into your dream school, consider working with a dedicated tutor who can help you brush up on your writing skills as well.

A writing tutor will provide you with hands-on training on how to improve your writing skills by overcoming your unique challenges. They will help you improve your grammar, sentence flow, word choice, and overall storytelling technique. In other words, they can help pave the way to get into your dream school after completing the LSATs.

You can even find writing tutors who specialize in LSAT essays. With many of these tutors having taken the LSATs themselves, they have real-life experience with what works and what doesn’t. This puts them in a position to provide valuable guidance from an inside perspective, which you can then use to fuel your own LSAT success.

## Shoot for Success
With all these resources, you have everything you need to start your LSAT prep. Remember that your mindset plays a crucial role in where you land, so shoot for success and put in the hard work to reach your destination. Also, don’t forget that getting a great score in the LSATs is just the beginning and you’ll still need to put in tons of hard work to become a lawyer. Make sure you get the help you need and work with a private law tutor who can guide you in your journey.
