---
title: A Comprehensive Guide to Effective MCAT Prep
date: 2020-05-29 07:58:00 -05:00
categories:
- MCAT
- Test Prep
tags:
- MCAT
- Test Prep
author: James Lanier
sub-headline: 'The first thing to know about the MCAT is that you’ve never seen an
  exam quite like it. '
hero-image: "/blog/uploads/A%20Comprehensive%20Guide%20to%20Effective%20MCAT%20Prep-41f2c7.png"
meta-description: 'Having enough time to study for the MCAT is all well and good,
  but it won’t get you very far if you are not studying the right things.  Merely
  logging time will not improve your score; you have to be working the right way on
  the right goals. '
post-description: 'Having enough time to study for the MCAT is all well and good,
  but it won’t get you very far if you are not studying the right things.  Merely
  logging time will not improve your score; you have to be working the right way on
  the right goals. '
---

If you are anything like most prospective med students, you've been putting off the day when you have to think about the MCAT.

Well, today is the day to stop.

Gain a small victory on the road to medical school success right now by coming to grips with the basic facts you need to know about MCAT prep.  

## What’s on the MCAT?

The first thing to know about the MCAT is that you’ve never seen an exam quite like it.  The test covers an incredibly broad range of topics, from physics to psychology, critical reasoning to biochemistry.  While upper level science content is not tested directly, all of the introductory science courses covered in a strong pre-med program will be on the exam. 

From the perspective of the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC), the goal of the MCAT is not to see whether you have accumulated the science knowledge apposite to being a doctor - that’s the goal of medical school; the goal of the MCAT is to see whether you have developed the [core competencies](https://students-residents.aamc.org/applying-medical-school/article/core-competencies/) necessary to succeed in medical school - whether you have learned how to efficiently process and memorize vast amounts of information, whether you know how to synthesize information from different sources, whether you can bring such a synthesis to bear on the issue at hand, and so forth.

In other words, you need more than facts.

### MCAT content

That said, facts are the foundation of your MCAT prep, and there are an awful lot of them on the exam. The MCAT tests significant portions of material from the standard premed introductory courses in:

* [Biology](https://www.wyzant.com/biology_tutors.aspx) (2 semesters)
* [General chemistry](https://www.wyzant.com/chemistry_tutors.aspx) (2 semesters)
* [Organic chemistry](https://www.wyzant.com/organic_chemistry_tutors.aspx) (2 semesters)
* [Biochemistry](https://www.wyzant.com/biochemistry_tutors.aspx) (1 semester)
* [Physics](https://www.wyzant.com/physics_tutors.aspx) (2 semesters)
* [Psychology](https://www.wyzant.com/psychology_tutors.aspx) (1 semester), and
* [Sociology](https://www.wyzant.com/sociology_tutors.aspx) (1 semester)

You'll be tested on everything from amino acids to torque, bioenergetics to theories of language development.  For a complete overview of exam, you will need to read the 128 page [MCAT Content Review](https://aamc-orange.global.ssl.fastly.net/production/media/filer_public/95/36/953625eb-6e5d-4521-80e0-054eb511e18f/combined_mcat-content_new_61419.pdf) published by the AAMC, but nothing quite replaces the value of seeing the exam for yourself on an [official practice test](https://store.aamc.org/official-mcat-sample-test-online.html).
 
In addition to the science knowledge base, you will be tested on your reading comprehension and rhetorical analysis skills.  While, to some, this might sound like a lightweight, freebie skillset, don’t underestimate the difficulty of the Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills (CARS) section of the MCAT.  CARS is actually one of the most feared sections on the exam.

### Format of the MCAT
Before we get into the details of the format of the MCAT, a warning is in order: Watch out for outdated advice - the MCAT changed radically in 2015.

Your friendly neighborhood MD more than likely took the old version of the exam, which was shorter and didn’t test biochemistry, psychology, or sociology. In the same way, older webpages can also lead you astray, so be sure to take your advice from a [trusted expert](https://www.wyzant.com/MCAT_tutors.aspx). 

The current MCAT divides the exam into four sections: CARS and three science sections.  The science sections all test students using passage-based and isolated questions. CARS, however, only tests students via passages.  

## Breakdown of the MCAT science sections
The three science sections test different content, as their titles suggest.

The **Biological and Biochemical Foundations of Living Systems** section primarily tests biology and biochemistry.  According to the AAMC, 25% of the section is devoted to first-semester biochemistry, 65% to introductory biology, 5% to general chemistry, and 5% to organic chemistry.

Similarly, the **Chemical and Physical Foundations of Biological Systems** section breaks down as follows:  25% first-semester biochemistry, 5% introductory biology, 30% general chemistry, 15% organic chemistry, and 25% introductory physics.  

Finally, the **Psychological, Social, and Biological Foundations of Behavior** section is essentially split between introductory psychology (65%) and introductory sociology (30%), though some introductory biology surfaces here as well (5%).

## What’s on CARS?
The CARS section tests three different skillsets. Approximately 30% of the questions concern basic questions about word meaning, passage structure, and other clearly identifiable elements of the text.  

The remaining 70% of the section is devoted to exploring the reasoning of the passage and applying it to new situations.  Some questions will ask you to explore whether the author’s argument is strong or weak.  Others will ask you how an author might respond to a hypothetical scenario.

Either way, careful reading and strong reasoning skills are a must.

The passages are largely drawn from sources outside of the standard premed curricula. About half of the reading passages are on topics in the humanities (e.g., art, literature, architecture, etc.). The other half stem from the social sciences (e.g., geography, political science, economics, etc.).

## MCAT timing
In CARS, you will have 90 minutes to answer 53 questions. In each of the three science sections, however, you will have 95 minutes to complete 59 questions. So, on average, you have about 1 minute and 35 seconds to answer each question.

### How long is the MCAT from start to finish?
Well, assuming that you take the optional breaks (and you should plan on taking them to combat the effects of fatigue), the exam itself takes a whopping 7.5 hours, though you should plan to be at the testing site for longer. 

## How is the MCAT scored?
After you survive this grueling monster of an exam, you’ll be able to see your scores. MCAT scores are a crucial part of the med school admissions process, and having excellent scores is often the difference between matriculation and another year of prepping for med school.  

Each section of the MCAT receives a score from 118 to 132 based on your performance.  The scores do not merely depend on the number of questions that you answer correctly but also on the difficulty of each question.  

The section scores are then combined to produce an overall score, ranging from the subpar 472 to the spectacular 528.  The exam is centered so that average MCAT score is 500.  

### What’s a good MCAT score?
As most med school applicants are rejected, it is important to have a great MCAT score.  A **500** tells a school that you can probably handle med school, but, given the limited number of slots, the schools can afford to be selective.

To maximize your chances of being accepted at a med school, you should [aim for an above average score](https://www.aamc.org/download/321508/data/factstablea23.pdf). This is especially true if you some aspects of your application (overall GPA, science GPA, recommendations, experience, essays, etc.) are below the averages for the med school that you hope to attend. 

At most med schools, a 510 or better is competitive. Still, some medical schools (notably Osteopathic schools) will consider applicants with lower scores.

Conversely, the best medical schools in the country generally expect MCAT scores in the top 1-2% of all test takers—a 520 or better.  

## When should I take the MCAT?
Given the importance of the MCAT, it’s vital to come to grips with where you score (at the moment) early. Ignorance about your strengths and weaknesses only reduces your chances of future MCAT success.  

So, take an [official practice MCAT](https://store.aamc.org/official-mcat-sample-test-online.html) as soon as possible. This weekend would be best.

Having said that, your actual MCAT testing date does not have to be so soon.  In fact, given that your MCAT prep will take a substantial amount of time, your test should be months down the road from you.

But you should probably [register today](https://students-residents.aamc.org/applying-medical-school/taking-mcat-exam/register-mcat-exam/). 

### Why register early?
There are four reasons for registering early.

First, most test takers end up taking the exam a second time.  (The first exam wakes them up to the realities that you will, hopefully, see on your practice test this weekend.)  

Second, testing dates and locations fill up quickly. The longer you wait, the fewer testing slots will be available. More than 80,000 med school applicants are all trying to take the exam on one of the 30 (or so) days it’s offered. 

Third, an early testing date will mitigate the risk of something happening during your exam (like getting sick) or leading up to the exam (like a shutdown due to COVID) that throws off your whole med school application.

Fourth, an early testing date will encourage you to study.  As Barry Farber said, “The average brain plays hooky whenever possible.”  An early MCAT date will take some of the “whenever possible” out of the equation.  (And if you need to reschedule, you can always do that, provided that 1) you registered early and 2) you are willing to pay the rescheduling fee.)

#### The average brain will play hooky whenever possible.

So make MCAT registration a priority and register right after you determine how much time you need to study. If not, put an appointment on your calendar right now to register after you’ve given your admissions schedule some more thought.

## How to study for the MCAT
There are many things to say about prepping for the MCAT.  One of the most important is that you should **begin early**.  

There is a staggering amount of material tested on the exam.  While it’s not impossible to learn everything you need to know to rock the MCAT, it is impossible to learn everything if you don’t give yourself enough time.

### Take a practice MCAT today
Do you think you are already prepared for the MCAT? Take a practice test and find out.

Do you think you would be hopeless on the MCAT?  Take a practice test and find out your weaknesses. 

Many students are scared of confronting their MCAT weaknesses.  However, confronting MCAT weaknesses is the only way to eliminate them.  

In fact, one of the best ways to make your MCAT prep more efficient is to take regular practice MCATs. 

One thing bears stating: Don’t let your practice MCAT scores be the measure of your future.  If anything, they are the measure of the work you’ve done so far. 

### Concentrate on your weaknesses
Assuming that you have identified your weaknesses via an official practice test, concentrate on them. In many school courses, you could do well in the class or even on the final ignoring sections of material.  The MCAT is not like that. Not only will you miss questions regarding the topic that you have avoided, you will also miss the questions that integrate that topic with others that you haven’t avoided.

### Take Your time
The average student does not do well enough on the MCAT to make it into med school, but don’t let that scare you.  The average student also does not allow themselves enough time to properly prepare for the exam.  

The exact number of hours that it will take you to improve depends on where you are today, how efficiently you will work, and how far out you are from the exam.  The better off you are today, the more efficiently you work, and the longer you spread your studying, the better you will do on the MCAT.

If you are typical, expect something in range of **300-450 hours** of studying to prepare for the MCAT. 
 
Obviously, prepping for the MCAT is not something that you can do in a week. Attempting it in a month is possible for some, but so is making it to the Olympics.  Most students need 3 to 5 months to properly prepare for the MCAT.  On the long end of things, many students need 6 to 8 months for the exam.  

To be safe, plan on the long end of things and you won’t be sorry.  

## Prep with an expert
Having enough time to study for the MCAT is all well and good, but it won’t get you very far if you are not studying the right things.  Merely logging time will not improve your score; you have to be working the right way on the right goals. 

Some of the right goals and habits can be acquired through working official practice tests, MCAT prep books, and flashcards.  However, nothing is more effective than working with an expert MCAT coach.

An expert [MCAT tutor](https://www.wyzant.com/MCAT_tutors.aspx) can help you from wasting your time with poor review habits or identify key faults in your understanding of the material.  A good coach will also provide accountability for sticking to your study schedule, will be able to pinpoint missteps in your problem solving process, and can give you perspective on integrating the details into the big picture.  All in all, a good coach is invaluable tool that can often make the difference between a med school acceptance or rejection letter.

It’s just common sense that the best way to learn how to rock the MCAT is by learning from someone who has mastered the MCAT themselves and helped others to do the same.  Find a tutor today who can catapult you to MCAT success!